.. SPDX-FileCopyrightText: Huawei Inc.
..
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0

.. _SupportedBoardnRF52840DK:

nRF52840 DK
############

.. contents::
   :depth: 3

Overview
********

The nRF52840 DK is a low-cost single-board development kit that uses the nRF52840
multi-protocol SoC to develop Bluetooth® 5, Bluetooth mesh, Thread, Zigbee, ANT, IEEE 802.15.4, and 2.4 GHz
proprietary applications. It also supports development on the nRF52811 SoC.

Hardware
********

* For detailed specifications, see nRF52840 DK product page on the `nRF52840 DK website <https://www.nordicsemi.com/Software-and-Tools/Development-Kits/nRF52840-DK>`_.
* For hardware schematics, see `nRF52840 Development Kit <https://www.nordicsemi.com/Software-and-tools/Development-Kits/nRF52840-DK/Download#infotabs>`_.

Working with the board
**********************

Building an application
=======================

All Scenarios OS Zephyr flavour is based on Zephyr kernel.

1. Source the environment with proper template settings, flavour being ``zephyr``
   and target machine being ``nrf52840dk-nrf52840``:

 .. code-block:: console

   $ TEMPLATECONF=../sources/meta-ohos/flavours/zephyr . ./sources/poky/oe-init-build-env build-ohos-zephyr

2. You will find yourself in the newly created build directory. Call ``bitbake``
   to build the image. Example below shows how to build ``zephyr-philosophers``.

 .. code-block:: console

   $ MACHINE=nrf52840dk-nrf52840 bitbake zephyr-philosophers

 You can set up ``MACHINE`` variable can be set up in ``conf/local.conf`` file under the build directory, or via the command line.

3. After the build completes, the image file can be found in
   ``build-ohos-zephyr/tmp-newlib/deploy/images/nrf52840dk-nrf52840/``.

Flashing an application
=======================

Installing pyOCD
----------------

pyOCD is an open source Python package for programming and debugging
Arm Cortex-M microcontrollers using multiple supported types of USB debug probes. 
It is fully cross-platform, with support for Linux.

* To install the latest stable version of pyOCD via `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/>`_ as follows:

 .. code-block:: console

   $ pip install --pre -U pyOCD

* To install the latest pre-release version from the HEAD of the master branch, execute the following command:

 .. code-block:: console

   $ pip install --pre -U git+https://github.com/mbedmicro/pyOCD.git

* To install directly from the source by cloning the git repository, do the following:

 .. code-block:: console

   $ python setup.py install

* Verify that the board is detected by pyOCD by executing the command:

 .. code-block:: console

   $ pyocd-flashtool -l

 .. note::

   When ``ValueError: The device has no langid`` error is displayed due to lack of 
   permission, perform the `instructions to resolve <https://github.com/pyocd/pyOCD/tree/master/udev>`__.

How to flash
------------

To flash the image, execute the command used to build the image with ``-c flash_usb`` appended.
For example, to flash the already built zephyr-philosophers image, execute:

.. code-block:: console

   $ MACHINE=nrf52840dk-nrf52840 bitbake zephyr-philosophers -c flash_usb

